This project was the final coding project for my Programming Fundamentals 2 class. The game was made in C++ using the Simple and Fast Multimedia Library (SFML). To get the application to run, we had to create a list for CMake to compile the code into an executable to run. This project tested my ability to understand the deliverables in the instructions and make the work for a game. Unlike regular code, a game is much harder to Unit test as many of the deliverables requested were about how the game would feel and interact with the user. While it would be possible to write a script for this, it was much simpler to get to understand what was expected and use that to compile a series of tests I could perform quickly upon each iteration of the game.

While this was not the hardest project I had done in the class, this was my favorite of the group because it was a lot more challenging conceptually. Making a game is a lot more than processing data, and to get a game to feel right it has to be efficient so it does not lag and well designed so that it is responsible for user input. Working in SFML was the first experience I had in a "game engine" which would inspire me to start creating games as a hobby. It had felt unapproachable before this but after making a complete (if not original) game in a month, I gained a lot more confidence to work on my projects on the side. While I was not ready to publish a game on Steam, I had the baseline and confidence to work towards that as a goal.

I would create a GitHub repository for this project, but I am not sure if I have the right to do so. The assets were given by my teacher for the project and it is not explicitly clear if I have the liberty to post it, even if it is just to store the work externally to let others view it. Also, I am not sure if the people who made Minesweeper would appreciate it either, so for now it will be only saved on my local machine. However, there are several examples of similar projects that people have done, so there are likely resources out there to replicate it.
